Updated article as per styleguide (#6371)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/code/subscribing-to-notifications.md

---
description: >-
  Subscribing to notifications allows you to listen to specific events and run custom code in response.
---

# Subscribing To Notifications

Subscribing to notifications allows you to run custom code in response to specific events, such as when the content is created, updated, or deleted. This feature enables you to automate tasks, validate data, log actions, and implement other custom functionalities to enhance your content management system.

To follow this guide, ensure you have an Umbraco installation with content, such as the Umbraco starter kit. In this article, we will walk you through the process of logging a message every time a document is published in Umbraco.

## Create a Notification Handler

We will add a string of text to the log whenever a document is published. This log is useful for debugging, as different parts of the Umbraco codebase log key events, warnings, and errors.

> 1. Add a new C# class to your project. For example: **LogWhenPublishedHandler**.

Reviewer: Where in the file structure do I add this file?

2. Implement the `INotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification>` interface to identify this class as a handler for content publication events.

> 3. Add the necessary `using` statements at the top of your file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the following `using` statements at the top of your file:
```

    ```csharp
    using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Events;
    using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;
    ```

Your class should now look like this:

> {% code title="LogWhenPublishedHandler.cs" overflow="wrap" lineNumbers="true" %}

Reviewer: I don't think we usually use the line numbers or the overflow.

```suggestion
{% code title="LogWhenPublishedHandler.cs"%}
```

Author: We have used line numbers in some other articles. Although we haven't used overflow, adding it formats the block to prevent it from running through or overflowing the code block stylesheet. Essentially, it styles the code to display neatly. I can remove it, but the code block looks better with it 😊

Reviewer: Sure! As long as it's consistent I'm happy 💪

public class LogWhenPublishedHandler : INotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification>
{
    // Here we will handle a notification.
}
```

{% endcode %}

## Implement the Handle Method

The `INotificationHandler` interface requires a `Handle` method to be implemented.

> 1. Implement the `Handle` method, which takes a `ContentPublishedNotification` parameter. This method will contain the custom logic that runs after content is published.

Reviewer: Instead of having a list with only 1 step, how about this:

```suggestion
Use the code snippet below to implement the `Handle` method, which takes a `ContentPublishedNotification` parameter. This method will contain the custom logic that runs after content is published.
```

}
```

{% endcode %}

## Inject a Logger for Logging

To log messages, we need to inject a `Microsoft ILogger` into the handler.

> 1. Add the `using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;` namespace to your file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a `using` statement for the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging` namespace to your file.
```

            // The custom code to fire every time content is published goes here!
            throw new System.NotImplementedException();
        }
}
```

{% endcode %}

## Log the Content Publication

> Now that we have a logger, let's use it to log a message every time content is published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a logger, let us use it to log a message every time content is published.
```

> 1. Replace the `NotImplementedException` with code that logs the publication event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the code snippet below to replace the `NotImplementedException` with the code that logs the publication event.
```

## Register the Notification Handler

Umbraco needs to know that our handler exists and that it handles `ContentPublishedNotification`. We need to register it in the **Program.cs** file.

{% hint style="info" %}
Registering dependencies and extensions like this can be done using different methods. Which method to use in each situation depends on whether the extension is added to the Umbraco site or a package.

Learn more about registering dependencies in the [Dependency Injection](../../reference/using-ioc.md) article.
{% endhint %}

1. Open the **Program.cs** file at the root of the project.
2. Add the `using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;` statement.

    ```csharp
    using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;
    ```

3. Register the handler in the builder configuration by adding the `.AddNotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification, LogWhenPublishedHandler>()` method call.

    The registration should look like this:

    ```csharp
    builder.CreateUmbracoBuilder()
        .AddBackOffice()
        .AddWebsite()
        .AddDeliveryApi()
        .AddComposers()
        .AddNotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification, LogWhenPublishedHandler>()
        .Build();
    ```

>     The entire handler class should look like this:

Reviewer: I'm not sure it makes sense to add the full LogWhenPublishedHandler.cs file here. It was a little confusing, as it comes after we need to add something to the PRogram.cs file, which make it sound like the code snippet is actually how the full program.cs should look 🙈

Author: Makes sense. I'll add it as a dropdown.

## Register the Notification Handler

Umbraco needs to know that our handler exists and that it handles `ContentPublishedNotification`. We need to register it in the **Program.cs** file.

{% hint style="info" %}
Registering dependencies and extensions like this can be done using different methods. Which method to use in each situation depends on whether the extension is added to the Umbraco site or a package.

Learn more about registering dependencies in the [Dependency Injection](../../reference/using-ioc.md) article.
{% endhint %}

1. Open the **Program.cs** file at the root of the project.
2. Add the `using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;` statement.

    ```csharp
    using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;
    ```

3. Register the handler in the builder configuration by adding the `.AddNotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification, LogWhenPublishedHandler>()` method call.

    The registration should look like this:

    ```csharp
    builder.CreateUmbracoBuilder()
        .AddBackOffice()
        .AddWebsite()
        .AddDeliveryApi()
        .AddComposers()
        .AddNotificationHandler<ContentPublishedNotification, LogWhenPublishedHandler>()
        .Build();
    ```

> <details>

Author: Ah got it. We'll move this to the top of the section 💪

        {
            _logger.LogInformation("{ContentName} was published", publishedItem.Name);
        }
}
```

{% endcode %}

> 4. Go to the Umbraco backoffice and publish a piece of content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Access the Umbraco backoffice and publish a piece of content.
```

5. Check the log messages in the **Log Viewer** under the **Settings** section.

    ![Log Viewer](images/log-viewer-v14.png)

> 6. Search 'All Logs'. If everything is set up correctly, you should see your custom log messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Search 'All Logs'.

If everything is set up correctly you will see your custom log messages.
```

>     ![Messages in Log](images/log-messages-v14.png)

Reviewer: Just a thought:

Steps 4-6 are all about checking that the logs work, right?
Should they have their own sub heading, instead of being part of "Registering the Handler"?
